## Background Info 
Setsuna was initially written as a drop-in replacement for Singapore Polytechnic(SP)'s [Attendance Taking System](https://web.archive.org/web/20160730032416/http://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/education/polys-app-attendance-system-stirs-concerns)(Commonly known as ATS) and it has since grown to be much more advanced.


Many outsiders may ask, *"What is this ATS thing you are talking about?"*. 
ATS is SP's homegrown solution to take attendance electronically. 
At the start of every lesson, the lecturer will display an One-Time-Pin(OTP) unique to the lesson generated by a Human Resource Management System(HRMS) which he/she has to login. Students will then login to their HRMS account and submit the code for the lesson. 
The purpose is to free up lecturer's time since manual marking takes up a huge amount of time which is valuable in classrooms. Mistakes can be reduced since paper can be lost easily and there will be no human error as a result.

### Flaws
Before starting on this project, our team analyzed and found multiple flaws in the ATS.

- _Attendance Fraud_

Students are able to share the OTP shown on the projector in plaintext to their friends who are not in class but in school.

- _No Device Checks_

Students are able to share their login credentials with their friends in class whereby helping the student not in class to submit the attendance. 
The problem can be overcomed by vigilent lecturers checking headcount against the attendance in HRMS, which defeats the primary purpose of the ATS. 

### Pros
There are pros to the ATS too.

- _Increase Productivity_

Lecturer is able to concentrate on teaching without the need to stop the class and take attendance since the burden is now on students to mark attendance themselves.

- _OTP_

The OTP is a great idea since it is unique to every class.


