## Background
Setsuna was initially written as a drop-in replacement for Singapore Polytechnic's [Attendance Taking System](https://web.archive.org/web/20160730032416/http://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/education/polys-app-attendance-system-stirs-concerns) (also known as ATS). 


The ATS is SP's homegrown solution to take students' attendance electronically. 
At the start of every lesson, the lecturer will display a unique code assigned to the current lesson. The code is generated by a Human Resource Management System. Students will then login to their accounts and submit the code for the lesson. 
The purpose of the system is to free up the lecturers' time, as manual attendance taking takes up a significant amount of time, of which may be valuable to the students' learning. Human error can also be reduced as a result, as paper documents can be lost easily.

### Flaws
Before starting on this project, our team analyzed and found multiple flaws in the ATS.

- **Attendance Fraud**: Anyone can share the numeric code shown in plaintext to their classmates who are not in class but in school. This causes inaccuracies in student attendance rates, and is unfair to students who attend class. 

- **No Device Checks**: Anyone can share their login credentials with their classmates in class, resulting in their classmates submitting their attendance for them. This causes inaccuracies in student attendance rates, and is unfair to students who attend class. It also creates security issues, as some mobile devices may not be secure, or the credentials may be broadcast over a non-secure network. A simple workaround for this issue would be to have the lecturer constantly tally the number of students against the attendance list. However, this workaround defeats the purpose of the ATS. 

### Pros
There are pros to the ATS too.

- **Increase Productivity**: Lecturer is able to focus on teaching without the need to stop the class and take the students' attendance, as the students are now responsible for their own attendance.

- **One-time Code**: Having a single non-reusable code allows for every class to have a different code, preventing automatic submissions.


